<!--
---
title: "RBCS0002: Type members within the same group should be ordered correctly (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule RBCS0002: Type members within the same group should be ordered correctly"
f1_keywords:
- RBCS0002
- TypeMembersShouldBeOrderedCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- TypeMembersShouldBeOrderedCorrectly
- RBCS0002
author: ryanthomas
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
-->

# RBCS0002: Type members within the same group should be ordered correctly

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |RBCS0002|
| **Category** |Maintainability|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking†|

† Can be breaking if the member information is consumed via reflection.

## Cause

A type definition contains members that are grouped together and not ordered correctly within the group either alphabetically or by the property names that are configured to be ordered first.

Consistent member ordering has a number of important advantages for code maintainability. Enforcing consistent ordering can help in eliminating change noise in commits and pull requests due to arbitrary ordering choices between different team members. Because code is read more frequently than it is written, consistent ordering can help developers search code more quickly and potentially increase productivity.

## Rule description

Members declarations within a type must be ordered alphabetically within their respective groups. When configured, property names to order first should be placed in order before the remaining properties are alphabetized.

```csharp
public string Alpha { get; set; }
public int Bravo => _fieldB * 5;
public bool Charlie { get; set; }
public DateTimeOffset Golf => _golf ?? DateTimeOffset.Now;
public string? Zulu { get; set; }
```

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, re-order the members alphabetically and/or according to the configured priority. The supplied `'Reorder the members'` code fix is the easiest way to do this and applying it will automatically
update all members in the type/document to match the configuration.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress these warnings when there are legitimate reasons to deviate from the agreed upon ordering. Exceptions should ideally be rare to avoid bikeshedding.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure a custom list of property names that should be ordered first before alphabetizing the remaining properties in the group
`dotnet_code_quality.RBCS0002.property_names_to_order_first = Id`

By default no property names are ordered first.

**Important Note**: [RBCS0003](RBCS0003.md) also checks for the `RBCS0002.property_names_to_order_first` option when analyzing/fixing the member assignment ordering in an object initializer statement.

## Related rules

- [RBCS0001: Type members should be ordered by group](RBCS0001.md)
- [RBCS0003: Member assignments in an object initializer are ordered correctly](RBCS0003.md)
- [RBCS0004: Enum member names are ordered alphabetically](RBCS0004.md)
- [RBCS0005: Order method parameters alphabetically](RBCS0005.md)
- [RBCS0006: Order record type member names alphabetically](RBCS0006.md)