<!--
---
title: "RBCS0001: Type members should be ordered by group (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule RBCS0001: Type members should be ordered by group"
f1_keywords:
- RBCS0001
- TypeMembersShouldBeOrderedCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- TypeMembersShouldBeOrderedCorrectly
- RBCS0001
author: ryanthomas
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
-->

# RBCS0001: Type members should be ordered by group

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |RBCS0001|
| **Category** |Maintainability|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking†|

† Can be breaking if the member information is consumed via reflection.

## Cause

A type definition contains members that are not ordered correctly by groups such as Properties or Methods.

Consistent member ordering has a number of important advantages for code maintainability. Enforcing consistent ordering can help in eliminating change noise in commits and pull requests due to arbitrary ordering choices between different team members. Because code is read more frequently than it is written, consistent ordering can help developers search code more quickly and potentially increase productivity.

## Rule description

Members declarations within a type must be ordered together into the configured groups.

```csharp
public string _fieldA;
public readonly int _fieldB;

public string PropertyOne { get; set; }
public int PropertyTwo => _fieldB * 5;

public void DoSomething() { }

public async Task DoSomethingElseAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken) => await Task.Delay(500);

// This property violates the rule because it is not ordered together with the other properties
public bool OutOfOrderProperty { get; private set; }

```

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, re-order the members according to the configured group ordering. The supplied `'Reorder the members'` code fix is the easiest way to do this and applying it will automatically
update all members in the type/document to match the configuration.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress these warnings when there are legitimate reasons to deviate from the agreed upon ordering. Exceptions should ideally be rare to avoid bikeshedding.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure member types into grouping and their respective group order within a type:
`dotnet_code_quality.RBCS0001.type_members_group_order = NestedRecordType:Constants,StaticReadonlyFields:StaticMutableFields,StaticProperties:StaticConstructors:ReadonlyInstanceFields,MutableInstanceFields:Constructors:InstanceProperties:InstanceMethods,StaticMethods:NestedEnumType,NestedOtherType`

**Notes**: The above example ordering shown is the default. If configured explicitly it must contain all of the defined member types or the analyzer will fallback to the default group ordering.

## Related rules

- [RBCS0002: Type members within the same group should be ordered correctly](RBCS0002.md)
- [RBCS0003: Member assignments in an object initializer are ordered correctly](RBCS0003.md)
- [RBCS0004: Order enum member names alphabetically](RBCS0004.md)
- [RBCS0005: Order method parameters alphabetically](RBCS0005.md)
- [RBCS0006: Order record type member names alphabetically](RBCS0006.md)