<!--
---
title: "RBCS0003: Member assignments in an object initializer are ordered correctly (code analysis)"
description: "Learn about code analysis rule RBCS0003: Member assignments in an object initializer are ordered correctly"
f1_keywords:
- RBCS0003
- MemberAssignmentsInInitializerShouldBeOrderedCorrectly
helpviewer_keywords:
- MemberAssignmentsInInitializerShouldBeOrderedCorrectly
- RBCS0003
author: ryanthomas
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
-->

# RBCS0003: Member assignments in an object initializer are ordered correctly

| | Value |
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** |RBCS0003|
| **Category** |Maintainability|
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** |Non-breaking|

## Cause

An object initializer statement contains named member assignments that anot ordered correctly either alphabetically or by the property names that are configured to be ordered first.

Consistent member ordering has a number of important advantages for code maintainability. Enforcing consistent ordering can help in eliminating change noise in commits and pull requests due to arbitrary ordering choices between different team members. Because code is read more frequently than it is written, consistent ordering can help developers search code more quickly and potentially increase productivity.

## Rule description

Members assignments within an object initializer statement must be ordered alphabetically. When configured, property names to order first should be placed in order before the remaining properties are alphabetized.

```csharp
var newFoo = new Foo()
{
    Alpha = nameof(Alpha),
    Bravo = 5,
    Charlie = true,
    Golf = DateTimeOffset.Now,
    Zulu = null
};
```

## How to fix violations

To fix a violation of this rule, re-order the members assignments alphabetically and/or according to the configured priority. The supplied `'Reorder the member assignments'` code fix can be executed to automatically reorder the member assignments for the object initializer statement.

## When to suppress warnings

It is safe to suppress these warnings when there are legitimate reasons to deviate from the agreed upon ordering. Exceptions should ideally be rare to avoid bikeshedding.

## Configure code to analyze

Use the following option to configure a custom list of property names that should be ordered first before alphabetizing the remaining member assignments.
`dotnet_code_quality.RBCS0002.property_names_to_order_first = Id`

By default no property names are ordered first.

**Important Note**: The displayed rule RBCS0002 is correct even though it is different than this rule. This rule checks for the `RBCS0002.property_names_to_order_first` value to match who the member ordering is configured within the type.

## Related rules

- [RBCS0001: Type members should be ordered by group](RBCS0001.md)
- [RBCS0002: Type members within the same group should be ordered correctly](RBCS0002.md)
- [RBCS0004: Enum member names are ordered alphabetically](RBCS0004.md)
- [RBCS0005: Order method parameters alphabetically](RBCS0005.md)